docs/src/getting_started/tutorial.md, before:

# [Quick Tutorial](@id getting_started_tutorial)

```@meta
CurrentModule = TextAssociations
DocTestSetup = quote
    using TextAssociations
end
```

This tutorial provides a comprehensive introduction to TextAssociations.jl. By the end, you'll understand how to analyze word associations in text and interpret the results.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes you have:

- Julia 1.9 or later installed
- TextAssociations.jl installed (`using Pkg; Pkg.add("TextAssociations")`)
- Basic familiarity with Julia

## Your First Analysis

Let's start with a simple example analyzing word associations in text about technology.

### Step 1: Load the Package

```@example tutorial
using TextAssociations
using DataFrames
```

### Step 2: Prepare Your Text

```@example tutorial
docs = [
    "Machine learning algorithms can learn from data without explicit programming.",
    "Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that uses neural networks.",
    "Artificial intelligence includes machine learning and deep learning techniques.",
    "Neural networks are the foundation of modern deep learning systems."
]

# Combine documents into one text
s = join(docs, " ")
println("Text length: ", length(s), " characters")
```

### Step 3: Create a Contingency Table

The contingency table captures co-occurrence patterns between your target word and its context.

```@example tutorial
# Analyze the word "learning"
ct = ContingencyTable(
    s,
    "learning";
    windowsize=3,  # Consider 3 words on each side
    minfreq=1      # Include words appearing at least once
)

println("Contingency table created for 'learning'")
```

**Parameters explained:**

- `windowsize=3`: Looks 3 words left and right of "learning"
- `minfreq=1`: Only includes words that appear at least once as collocates

### Step 4: Calculate Association Scores

Now let's calculate PMI (Pointwise Mutual Information) scores to identify strong collocates.

```@example tutorial
# Calculate PMI scores
results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)

println("\nTop 5 collocates of 'learning':")
println(first(sort(results, :PMI, rev=true), 5))
```

### Step 5: Try Multiple Metrics

Different metrics reveal different aspects of associations.

```@example tutorial
# Calculate multiple metrics at once
multi_results = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice, LLR], ct)

println("\nTop 3 collocates with multiple metrics:")
println(first(sort(multi_results, :PMI, rev=true), 3))
```

## Working with Corpora

For analyzing multiple documents, use the Corpus functionality.

```@example tutorial
using TextAnalysis: StringDocument

# Create a simple corpus directly
doc_objects = [StringDocument(d) for d in docs]
corpus = Corpus(doc_objects)

# Analyze "learning" across the corpus
corpus_results = analyze_node(
    corpus,
    "learning",     # Node word
    PMI,           # Metric
    windowsize=3,   # Context window
    minfreq=2      # Min frequency across corpus
)

println("Top collocates of 'learning' in corpus:")
println(first(corpus_results, 5))
```

## Understanding the Results

### Interpreting PMI Scores

PMI (Pointwise Mutual Information) measures how much more likely two words co-occur than by chance:

- **PMI > 0**: Words co-occur more than expected (positive association)
- **PMI = 0**: Co-occurrence matches random expectation
- **PMI < 0**: Words co-occur less than expected (negative association)

```@example tutorial
# Filter for strong associations
strong_assoc = filter(row -> row.PMI > 3.0, results)
println("\nStrong associations (PMI > 3):")
println(strong_assoc)
```

### Comparing Metrics

Different metrics highlight different aspects:

```@example tutorial
# Create comparison
comparison = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice, Dice], ct)

println("\nMetric comparison for top collocate:")
if nrow(comparison) > 0
    top_row = first(sort(comparison, :PMI, rev=true))
    println("  Collocate: ", top_row.Collocate)
    println("  PMI: ", round(top_row.PMI, digits=2))
    println("  LogDice: ", round(top_row.LogDice, digits=2))
    println("  Dice: ", round(top_row.Dice, digits=3))
end
```

## Text Preprocessing

Control how text is normalized before analysis:

```@example tutorial
using TextAnalysis: text

# Example with case-sensitive analysis
text_mixed = "Machine Learning and machine learning are related. Machine learning is powerful."

# Default: case normalization ON
config_lower = TextNorm(strip_case=true)
ct_lower = ContingencyTable(text_mixed, "learning";
    windowsize=3, minfreq=1, norm_config=config_lower)

# Case-sensitive: case normalization OFF
config_case = TextNorm(strip_case=false)
ct_case = ContingencyTable(text_mixed, "learning";
    windowsize=3, minfreq=1, norm_config=config_case)

println("Lowercase normalization: ", nrow(assoc_score(PMI, ct_lower)), " collocates")
println("Case-sensitive: ", nrow(assoc_score(PMI, ct_case)), " collocates")
```

### Preprocessing Options

```@example tutorial
# Full preprocessing configuration
full_config = TextNorm(
    strip_case=true,              # Convert to lowercase
    strip_punctuation=true,        # Remove punctuation
    strip_accents=false,           # Keep diacritics
    normalize_whitespace=true,     # Collapse multiple spaces
    unicode_form=:NFC              # Unicode normalization
)

# Apply preprocessing
preprocessed = prep_string(s, full_config)
println("Preprocessed text (first 100 chars):")
println(first(text(preprocessed), 100), "...")
```

## Common Workflows

### 1. Find Strong Collocations

```@example tutorial
function find_strong_collocations(text, word, threshold=3.0)
    ct = ContingencyTable(text, word; windowsize=5, minfreq=2)
    results = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice], ct)

    # Filter for strong associations
    strong = filter(row -> row.PMI > threshold, results)
    sort!(strong, :PMI, rev=true)

    return strong
end

collocations = find_strong_collocations(s, "learning")
println("\nStrong collocations found: ", nrow(collocations))
```

### 2. Compare Multiple Words

```@example tutorial
function compare_words(text, words, metric=PMI)
    all_results = DataFrame()

    for word in words
        ct = ContingencyTable(text, word; windowsize=5, minfreq=1)
        word_results = assoc_score(metric, ct)
        word_results.Node .= word
        append!(all_results, word_results)
    end

    return all_results
end

comparison_results = compare_words(s, ["learning", "neural", "deep"])
println("\nComparison across words:")
println(first(sort(comparison_results, :PMI, rev=true), 10))
```

### 3. Parameter Tuning

```@example tutorial
function tune_parameters(text, word)
    configs = [
        (ws=2, mf=1, name="Narrow"),
        (ws=5, mf=2, name="Balanced"),
        (ws=10, mf=3, name="Wide")
    ]

    for config in configs
        ct = ContingencyTable(text, word;
            windowsize=config.ws, minfreq=config.mf)
        tune_results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)
        println("$(config.name): $(nrow(tune_results)) collocates")
    end
end

println("\nParameter tuning for 'learning':")
tune_parameters(s, "learning")
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand the basics, explore:

- **[Metrics Guide](../metrics/overview.md)**: Learn about all available metrics
- **[Corpus Analysis](../guide/corpus_analysis.md)**: Advanced corpus techniques
- **[Preprocessing](../guide/preprocessing.md)**: Detailed text normalization
- **[API Reference](../api/functions.md)**: Complete function documentation

## Quick Reference

### Basic Analysis Pattern

```julia
# 1. Load package
using TextAssociations

# 2. Create contingency table
ct = ContingencyTable(s, "word"; windowsize=5, minfreq=2)

# 3. Calculate scores
results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)

# 4. Examine results
sort!(results, :PMI, rev=true)
```

### Common Parameters

| Parameter           | Typical Range | Description                     |
| ------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `windowsize`        | 2-10          | Context window size             |
| `minfreq`           | 1-5           | Minimum co-occurrence frequency |
| `strip_case`        | true/false    | Convert to lowercase            |
| `strip_punctuation` | true/false    | Remove punctuation              |

### Recommended Metrics

- **PMI**: General-purpose, interpretable
- **LogDice**: Balanced, less affected by frequency
- **LLR**: Statistical significance testing
- **Dice**: Simple similarity measure

## Troubleshooting

### No Results Found

```julia
# Check if word exists in text
doc = prep_string(s, TextNorm(strip_case=true))
tokens = TextAnalysis.tokens(doc)
word_count = count(==("yourword"), tokens)
println("Word appears $word_count times")
```

### Empty DataFrame

Possible causes:

1. `minfreq` too high - try `minfreq=1`
2. `windowsize` too small - try `windowsize=10`
3. Word not in text - check spelling and case
4. Text too short - need more context

### Memory Issues

```julia
# Use scores_only for large analyses
scores = assoc_score(PMI, ct, scores_only=true)  # Returns Vector{Float64}
```

## Practice Exercises

1. Analyze your own text data
2. Compare different window sizes
3. Try all available metrics
4. Build a collocate extraction pipeline
5. Analyze a corpus of documents

Happy analyzing!

Commit message:

Edited the first half of the tutorial.md documentation file.

docs/src/getting_started/tutorial.md, after:

# [Quick Tutorial](@id getting_started_tutorial)

```@meta
CurrentModule = TextAssociations
DocTestSetup = quote
    using TextAssociations
end
```

This tutorial provides a first introduction to `TextAssociations.jl`. By the end, you'll understand how to analyze word associations in text and interpret the results.

## Your First Analysis

Let's start with a simple example analyzing word associations in text about technology.

### Step 1: Load the Package

```@example tutorial
using TextAssociations
using DataFrames
```

### Step 2: Prepare Your Text

The first step in calculating association measures is to prepare your text as a single string. In many cases, you may start with an array (or vector) of document strings; for example, one string per document in a corpus. To compute word associations across the entire dataset, it’s often useful to concatenate these individual documents into a single unified text string. This provides a continuous text stream from which co-occurrence patterns can be extracted and analyzed.

```@example tutorial
docs = [
    "Machine learning algorithms can learn from data without explicit programming, making learning an intrinsic part of how computers adapt to new information. Through iterative learning cycles, these algorithms identify patterns, refine their predictions, and continue learning from mistakes or feedback. Instead of following fixed rules, they rely on statistical learning models that evolve as more data becomes available. From spam detection to medical image analysis, machine learning represents a paradigm shift — where learning itself becomes the engine that powers continuous improvement and innovation.",
    "Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that emphasizes multi-layered representations and hierarchical learning processes. Each layer of a deep neural network performs its own stage of learning, extracting progressively more abstract features from raw data. This depth of learning allows systems to achieve human-like performance in recognizing speech, images, and text. Deep learning thrives on massive datasets where the learning process can uncover subtle, non-linear relationships. It has reshaped industries by proving how learning can scale to unprecedented levels of complexity and precision.",
    "Artificial intelligence includes both machine learning and deep learning techniques, which together enable continuous and adaptive learning. In this broader sense, learning is central to how AI systems reason, plan, and interact with their environment. Traditional rule-based AI has gradually evolved toward learning-driven models that improve with experience. Whether through reinforcement learning for strategic games or transfer learning for adapting to new domains, the essence of AI lies in cultivating learning behaviors that mirror, and sometimes surpass, human capabilities. Thus, learning is not just a component of AI—it is its defining characteristic.",
    "Neural networks form the backbone of deep learning systems, embodying one of the most powerful learning architectures ever created. Designed to simulate biological neurons, each unit participates in the learning process by adjusting its weights based on errors during training. This collective learning enables networks to capture intricate dependencies in data and generalize across tasks. From early perceptron models to transformer-based architectures, the evolution of neural networks has been driven by deeper and more efficient forms of learning. As a result, these systems have revolutionized what learning means in the context of artificial intelligence."
]

# Combine documents into one text
s = join(docs, " ")
println("Text length: ", length(s), " characters")
```

### Step 3: Create a Contingency Table

The contingency table is a central component in the workflow of `TextAssociations.jl`. It represents the co-occurrence structure between a target word and its surrounding context, serving as the foundation for calculating all association measures.

```@example tutorial
# Create the contingency table for the word "learning"
ct = ContingencyTable(
    s,
    "learning";
    windowsize=3,  # Consider 3 words on each side
    minfreq=1      # Include words appearing at least once
)

ct
```

**Parameters explained:**

- `windowsize=3`: Looks 3 words left and right of "learning"
- `minfreq=1`: Only includes words that appear at least once as collocates

### Step 4: Calculate Association Scores

Once the contingency table is ready, you can compute association scores to identify the strongest collocates of your target word. Here, we use one of the most widely used association measures — Pointwise Mutual Information (`PMI`) — to quantify how strongly each word is associated with the target. Higher PMI values indicate stronger and more specific co-occurrence relationships.

```@example tutorial
# Calculate PMI scores
results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)

println("\nTop 5 collocates of 'learning':")
println(first(sort(results, :PMI, rev=true), 5))
```

### Step 5: Try Multiple Metrics

`TextAssociations.jl` allows you to compute multiple association measures at once, not just a single one. This makes it easy to compare how different metrics capture various aspects of word association strength. For example, `PMI` highlights rare but exclusive co-occurrences, `LogDice` provides a balanced frequency-based view, and `LLR` (Log-Likelihood Ratio) offers statistical robustness for lower-frequency data. Exploring several metrics in parallel helps you obtain a more comprehensive understanding of collocational patterns in your corpus.

```@example tutorial
# Calculate multiple metrics at once
multi_results = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice, LLR], ct)

println("\nTop 3 collocates with multiple metrics:")
println(first(sort(multi_results, :PMI, rev=true), 3))
```

## Working with Corpora

When you want to analyze multiple documents, switch from a single text string to a `Corpus`. This lets you compute association measures across document boundaries while controlling context windows and frequency thresholds.

```@example tutorial
using TextAnalysis: StringDocument

# Create a simple corpus directly
doc_objects = [StringDocument(d) for d in docs]
corpus = Corpus(doc_objects)

# Analyze "learning" across the corpus
corpus_results = analyze_node(
    corpus,
    "learning",     # Target node (node word)
    PMI,            # Association metric (you can pass multiple metrics too)
    windowsize=3,   # Token window on each side
    minfreq=2       # Minimum co-occurrence frequency across the corpus
)

println("Top collocates of 'learning' in corpus:")
println(first(corpus_results, 5))
```

**Notes**

- `windowsize` controls how far from the target word we look for collocates.
- `minfreq` filters out very rare pairs for more reliable scores.
- You can compute multiple measures at once by passing a vector of metrics (e.g., [`PMI`, `LogDice`, `LLR`]); the result will include one column per metric alongside frequency columns.

## Understanding the Results

### Interpreting `PMI` Scores

`PMI` (Pointwise Mutual Information) measures how much more likely two words co-occur than by chance:

- **PMI > 0**: Words co-occur more than expected (positive association)
- **PMI = 0**: Co-occurrence matches random expectation
- **PMI < 0**: Words co-occur less than expected (negative association)

```@example tutorial
# Filter for strong associations
strong_assoc = filter(row -> row.PMI > 3.0, results)
println("\nStrong associations (PMI > 3):")
println(strong_assoc)
```

### Comparing Metrics

Different metrics highlight different aspects:

```@example tutorial
# Create comparison
comparison = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice, Dice], ct)

println("\nMetric comparison for top collocate:")
if nrow(comparison) > 0
    top_row = first(sort(comparison, :PMI, rev=true))
    println("  Collocate: ", top_row.Collocate)
    println("  PMI: ", round(top_row.PMI, digits=2))
    println("  LogDice: ", round(top_row.LogDice, digits=2))
    println("  Dice: ", round(top_row.Dice, digits=3))
end
```

## Text Preprocessing

Control how text is normalized before analysis:

```@example tutorial
using TextAnalysis: text

# Example with case-sensitive analysis
text_mixed = "Machine Learning and machine learning are related. Machine learning is powerful."

# Default: case normalization ON
config_lower = TextNorm(strip_case=true)
ct_lower = ContingencyTable(text_mixed, "learning";
    windowsize=3, minfreq=1, norm_config=config_lower)

# Case-sensitive: case normalization OFF
config_case = TextNorm(strip_case=false)
ct_case = ContingencyTable(text_mixed, "learning";
    windowsize=3, minfreq=1, norm_config=config_case)

println("Lowercase normalization: ", nrow(assoc_score(PMI, ct_lower)), " collocates")
println("Case-sensitive: ", nrow(assoc_score(PMI, ct_case)), " collocates")
```

### Preprocessing Options

```@example tutorial
# Full preprocessing configuration
full_config = TextNorm(
    strip_case=true,              # Convert to lowercase
    strip_punctuation=true,        # Remove punctuation
    strip_accents=false,           # Keep diacritics
    normalize_whitespace=true,     # Collapse multiple spaces
    unicode_form=:NFC              # Unicode normalization
)

# Apply preprocessing
preprocessed = prep_string(s, full_config)
println("Preprocessed text (first 100 chars):")
println(first(text(preprocessed), 100), "...")
```

## Common Workflows

### 1. Find Strong Collocations

```@example tutorial
function find_strong_collocations(text, word, threshold=3.0)
    ct = ContingencyTable(text, word; windowsize=5, minfreq=2)
    results = assoc_score([PMI, LogDice], ct)

    # Filter for strong associations
    strong = filter(row -> row.PMI > threshold, results)
    sort!(strong, :PMI, rev=true)

    return strong
end

collocations = find_strong_collocations(s, "learning")
println("\nStrong collocations found: ", nrow(collocations))
```

### 2. Compare Multiple Words

```@example tutorial
function compare_words(text, words, metric=PMI)
    all_results = DataFrame()

    for word in words
        ct = ContingencyTable(text, word; windowsize=5, minfreq=1)
        word_results = assoc_score(metric, ct)
        word_results.Node .= word
        append!(all_results, word_results)
    end

    return all_results
end

comparison_results = compare_words(s, ["learning", "neural", "deep"])
println("\nComparison across words:")
println(first(sort(comparison_results, :PMI, rev=true), 10))
```

### 3. Parameter Tuning

```@example tutorial
function tune_parameters(text, word)
    configs = [
        (ws=2, mf=1, name="Narrow"),
        (ws=5, mf=2, name="Balanced"),
        (ws=10, mf=3, name="Wide")
    ]

    for config in configs
        ct = ContingencyTable(text, word;
            windowsize=config.ws, minfreq=config.mf)
        tune_results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)
        println("$(config.name): $(nrow(tune_results)) collocates")
    end
end

println("\nParameter tuning for 'learning':")
tune_parameters(s, "learning")
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand the basics, explore:

- **[Metrics Guide](../metrics/overview.md)**: Learn about all available metrics
- **[Corpus Analysis](../guide/corpus_analysis.md)**: Advanced corpus techniques
- **[Preprocessing](../guide/preprocessing.md)**: Detailed text normalization
- **[API Reference](../api/functions.md)**: Complete function documentation

## Quick Reference

### Basic Analysis Pattern

```julia
# 1. Load package
using TextAssociations

# 2. Create contingency table
ct = ContingencyTable(s, "word"; windowsize=5, minfreq=2)

# 3. Calculate scores
results = assoc_score(PMI, ct)

# 4. Examine results
sort!(results, :PMI, rev=true)
```

### Common Parameters

| Parameter           | Typical Range | Description                     |
| ------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `windowsize`        | 2-10          | Context window size             |
| `minfreq`           | 1-5           | Minimum co-occurrence frequency |
| `strip_case`        | true/false    | Convert to lowercase            |
| `strip_punctuation` | true/false    | Remove punctuation              |

### Recommended Metrics

- **PMI**: General-purpose, interpretable
- **LogDice**: Balanced, less affected by frequency
- **LLR**: Statistical significance testing
- **Dice**: Simple similarity measure

## Troubleshooting

### No Results Found

```julia
# Check if word exists in text
doc = prep_string(s, TextNorm(strip_case=true))
tokens = TextAnalysis.tokens(doc)
word_count = count(==("yourword"), tokens)
println("Word appears $word_count times")
```

### Empty DataFrame

Possible causes:

1. `minfreq` too high - try `minfreq=1`
2. `windowsize` too small - try `windowsize=10`
3. Word not in text - check spelling and case
4. Text too short - need more context

### Memory Issues

```julia
# Use scores_only for large analyses
scores = assoc_score(PMI, ct, scores_only=true)  # Returns Vector{Float64}
```

## Practice Exercises

1. Analyze your own text data
2. Compare different window sizes
3. Try all available metrics
4. Build a collocate extraction pipeline
5. Analyze a corpus of documents

Happy analyzing!
